The problem with to-do lists is that you
think to yourself, this is what I have
to get done and then you put it on a
list and then maybe you do it, maybe you
don't.
And that's the problem.
What's happening most of the time when
you say this is what I have to do and
you put it into a to-do list. What
you're doing is just taking that
critical selft talk that you have in
your head and you're saying okay I'm
going to make a list and then I'm either
going to do it and feel like my entire
life is controlled by this to-do list or
you're going to say oh yeah I'm not
going to do that and then I'm going to
feel bad about not doing that and I'm
going to go why didn't I get everything
done on my to-do list and neither of
those are actually getting the life that
you want.
Does it make any sense at all to think
about what you're going to do without
how you're going to do it? And yet our
to-do lists never really talk about how
we're going to do it. So, let me give
you this example. You have a
three-year-old and you're like, "Okay,
you brush your teeth." It's not very
likely. Now, if you think about how to
do it, it could change everything. So,
for instance, if you say to a
three-year-old, "Hey, how about we brush
our teeth together?" They're far more
likely to brush their teeth than if you
just tell them to go and do it. So, how
you do something, how you approach it is
going to make a very big difference in
whether you get the thing done. So, if
you're doing a great to-do list that
works for you instead of you working for
it, you're asking it a question that's
actually relevant to you, that actually
makes you feel purpose, and you're also
writing down how you're going to do it
in a way that's super enjoyable. You're
giving the thought to how you're going
to do it so that you want to do it. And
once those two things are in place, then
you can make a great to-do list that
works for you instead of you working for
it. So, let me tell you a story. As some
of you know, I coach famous executives.
And I had this one executive who was
constantly in the to-do list, just going
from meeting to meeting non-stop,
working 60, 70 hours a week and doing
pretty good. Actually, the company was
growing pretty well. It was like 10 12%
a year. We talked about a different way
of doing time management, a different
way of doing a to-do list. and he
started thinking about his days as what
are the three things that I can do that
make everything else either easier or
irrelevant
and that's all he would focus on just
getting those three things done and so
all of a sudden his to-do list was the
most high lever stuff and there's a
fulfillingness to like checking off a
to-do list but man do you feel great if
you've done something that you know will
make a substantial difference I've never
heard anybody say you know I want a job
where I don't make any difference at
all. It's part of what we are as humans.
We love to have an impact. We like to
have a big impact on our lives. We like
to help other people. We do not want to
do something that is just
wrote that.
Yeah, I'm not going to remember what I
did in two days or three days. It's not
how we want to exist. And so, not only
is it super effective at changing a
company and his company grew, but it
also felt better on a day-to-day basis.
And that's one of the big keys is when
you are doing a to-do list, it's really
important to figure out how to make it
enjoyable. And why is that the case?
It's the case because if it's enjoyable,
you're more likely to do it. If it's
enjoyable, it's more efficient. And what
I mean by that is that if it takes me a
lot of energy to do something, it's not
efficient. If I have a car that takes a
gallon of gas to move a mile, no matter
how fast it goes, it's not efficient. If
I have energy at the end of the day
because everything I've done has given
me energy or has taken the least amount
of energy, then it's very efficient. I
can keep on going. I can produce so much
and I can do it with a lot of joy and
what I produce is going to be better
because what do you want? You want a
product created by somebody who's
freaking miserable or do you want a
actually energized and enjoying their
world? My friend Thiago is talking to us
one day about how he hates YouTube
meetings. And there was like three of us
there. We were in this mastermind. We're
all chatting about being content
creators and everything. And he said,
"There's just no way to enjoy YouTube
meetings." And we were all laughing. Of
course you can. We do. And we went
through all the different things that
were completely unenjoyable about the
meeting. And you could see him start to
light up. You could see him start to see
that there is maybe a different way to
do YouTube, something that was enjoyable
because if I enjoy it, I'm going to do
it. And doing it is more important than
anything else. Next thing you know, his
YouTube channel has completely jumped
over the last year. You can just see the
numbers. has gone way up because he
found a way to enjoy doing YouTube. And
this works everywhere I look. When
somebody's really enjoying what they do,
what they're passionate about, and they
feel a deep sense of purpose in, they're
far more likely to be successful than
the person who's doing it because they
have to.
So typically what people think about at
this point is they say, "Oh, well, if I
just enjoy everything that I'm doing,
then I'm not not going to do anything of
value." But that it's just simply not
true. As we've already talked about, we
enjoy being of service. We enjoy being
of purpose. We enjoy the fact that we're
effective, that we're having an impact.
And so, yeah, maybe we need a break one
day. Maybe what we would enjoy one day
is going to the park or taking a
vacation. But at some point we are going
to reach a place where we want to have
an impact, where we want to feel
purpose. So I learned this from my
daughter. So right before she graduated
from high school, she went and she
worked at the Smithsonian in Panama. She
had some friends there and so she had
fun, but she also was helping the
mangroves and helping the ecology of
these islands that she cares about. The
next year she graduates from high school
and she decides she saved all of her
money and she is going to go and tour
Europe. And halfway through she calls me
up and she goes, "Yeah, I'm really
liking it, Dad, but you know, there's
just not the sense of purpose that I had
when I was in Panama."
And I have met billionaires who don't
have to work.
I have met people who are working for
the post office. And there's not one
that I've ever met who doesn't want that
sense of purpose,
who doesn't want to feel like they are
doing something that's meaningful.
So, going back to your to-do list, think
about this. When you look at the list,
have you said to yourself, "Oh, this is
something I'm gonna enjoy doing, that
I'm gonna feel like I'm on my purpose,
like I'm having an impact, or is it just
a list of things that my brain has been
telling me to do in some abusive fashion
for the last, I don't know, two years,
20 years? What What's your to-do list?"
So, now you have a great to-do list, and
that's fantastic. One that works for you
instead of you working for it. But the
underlying issue is still there. The
underlying issue is that you still are
telling yourself you have to do stuff
all the time. You have this relationship
with this critical self-t talk, this
voice in your head that is not as
productive as it could be. And if you
want to start really looking at that, we
have a free micro course. You can find
it here or you can click the link below
and there we'll start to really get into
how the voice in the head works and how
you can start changing your relationship
with it.